Python VS Anaconda 
    Python: A lightweight programming language used for general-purpose programming, with package management via pip and basic environment tools like venv.
    Anaconda: A Python distribution for data science and machine learning, bundling Python, popular libraries, Jupyter Notebook, and the conda manager for easier package and environment management.
    Use Python for general programming and Anaconda for data-focused workflows.

Anaconda 
    It is an open-source distribution of the Python and R programming languages, which are used for data science, machine learning, and artificial intelligence applications.
    It includes over 250 popular data science packages and management tools for simplifying package installation and deployment.

Conda 
    Anaconda comes with its own package, environment, and dependency management system called "conda."

Install Python
    1. Download latest version from: https://www.python.org/downloads/
    2. Open the downloaded .pkg file and follow the installer prompts;
    3. Verify the installation: python3 --version       # Python 3.13.4


Run .py 
    - Open command pallete: Cmd + Shift + P
    - Type: Python: Select Interpreter
    - Choose the correct Python 3.x interpreter (usually /usr/local/bin/python3 or similar); This ensures  VS Code uses the right version of Python when running your code.
    - Run Your Python Code
    - Open main.py.
        Click the green "Run" button in the top-right corner.   
        Or press Ctrl + Option + N (if you have the Code Runner extension).

Jupiter Notebook file 
    A Jupyter Notebook file is a special kind of document used to write and run code interactively, especially for data science, machine learning, and scientific computing.
    It lets you combine code, output, markdown (text), math (LaTeX), and visualizations in one document.
    A .ipynb file typically contains:
        Code Cell	    - Python (or other language) code
        Markdown Cell	- Rich-text, headings, bullet points
        Output Cell	    - Results of code (e.g., plots, tables)
    To run it, you need to create a environment;



You can use VSC to execute .py files, jupiter notebook files;



Conda command 
Installed with Miniconda. It can be used to manage both packages and virtual environments. Generally used for data science projects.

conda create -p mcenv python==3.12       # It creates a environment; mcenv is environment name; It uses 3.12 version of python;
conda activate mcenv


conda create -n myenv python=3.10
conda activate myenv
conda install numpy
pip install some_package_not_in_conda

Python libraries:
    Scientific computing (NumPy & SciPy)
    Machine learning (TensorFlow & PyTorch)
    Web development (Django & Flask)
    Data manipulation and cleaning (pandas)


NumPy, SciPy, TensorFlow

conda create -n mlenv python=3.10
conda activate mlenv
conda install numpy pandas scikit-learn matplotlib jupyter
conda install pytorch torchvision torchaudio pytorch-cuda=11.8 -c pytorch -c nvidia
Start with conda, and use pip only when you need a package not available in conda channels. This gives you the stability of conda with the breadth of pip.



