Profile 
Tata Engineering and Locomotive Company Ltd, popularly known as Telco, is one of India's largest private sector companies. With a turnover of Rs 66.37 billion, it is the country's leading commercial vehicle manufacturer and the world’s sixth largest automobile company.  

In India, the company has a 66 per cent market share in the medium and heavy commercial vehicle segments, a 67 per cent share of the light commercial vehicles market and a 28 per cent share of the multi-utility vehicles segment. 

The widely successful Tata Indica, which is Euro 1 and 2 compliant, is the country’s first indigenously designed, developed and manufactured passenger car. The company also makes several other passenger vehicles, including the Safari, the Sumo, the Sierra, the Tata Estate, and the Tatamobile pick-up.

The company’s products have received wide acceptance not only in India but also in markets in the Middle East, Asia, Africa and Europe.

Areas of business
The company manufactures medium, heavy and light commercial vehicles, multi-utility vehicles and passenger cars. It also makes general and special purpose machines for automotive applications at its machine tool division. These include NC/CNC horizontal and inline machining centres, flexible manufacturing systems, CNC cylindrical grinding machines, and robots for welding, cutting, painting and other applications.

In 1999, the company’s revenues from its four manufacturing plants at three locations in India were Rs 66.37 billion ($1,573.5 million). In 1998,  they were Rs 70.26 billion ($1,893 million). (The average exchange rate in 1999 was Rs 42.18 to one US dollar.)

In the year ended 31 March 1999, the company’s total exports were worth about Rs 505.53 crore, against about Rs 600.78 crore in the previous year.

Locations
The company’s manufacturing plants in India are at Jamshedpur in Bihar, Pimpri and Chinchwad near Pune in Maharashtra, and Lucknow in Uttar Pradesh. A fifth manufacturing facility is being set up at Dharwad in Karnataka. 

Collaborations
The company has technical tie-ups with: 

The Institute of Development in Automotive Engineering, S.P.A., Italy, for assistance in small car body design and styling; 
Nachi Fujikoshi Corporation, Japan, for robots for welding, painting and other automotive applications; 
Le Moteur Moderne, France, for the development of diesel and petrol engines for passenger cars; and 
Robert Bosch GmbH, Germany, for application work on the engine management system for 4 PL petrol engines. 
Subsidiary company
Tata Technologies India Ltd. oversees the IT requirements of Tata Engineering. It provides services for SAP implementation, CAD/CAM-based design, and e-commerce facilities to customers in India and abroad.

Strategic alliances
Tata Engineering has several strategic alliances with global companies. These include -

Tata Cummins Ltd., a 50:50 joint-venture with Cummins Engine Company Inc., USA; makes fuel-efficient, low emission, environment-friendly diesel engines; 
Tata Holset Ltd., a 50:50 joint-venture with Holset Engineering Company, UK, makes turbochargers for diesel engines manufactured by Tata Cummins Ltd. and other OEMs; 
A strategic alliance with Tata Precision Industries Pvt. Ltd., Singapore, for the manufacture and sale of high precision toolings as well as electronic and plastic components for the computer industry; 
Strategic alliances with Nita Company Ltd., Bangladesh, for the assembly and sale of Tata commercial vehicles; and with Concorde Motors Ltd., for dealerships of passenger vehicles. Concorde has dealerships for Tata Engineering passenger vehicles in Delhi, Mumbai, Bangalore, Ludhiana, Hyderabad, Chennai and Lucknow. 
Contact:
Bombay House,
24, Homi Mody Street,
Fort, Mumbai - 400 001, INDIA.
Tel: + 91-22-2049131
Fax: + 91-22-2045474
Email:assist@telco.co.in
Email for international enquiries:rbc@telco.co.in

