Wipro  Sample Test #3
 Home
 

Back To Wipro Page



Q.If  x= sin-1(t), y = log(1-t2), find d2y/dx2 when  t=1/2 and when t =-8/3.

Q. Element having same atomic number and different mass number are ................

Q. The sum of the series 1+1(1+1/n)+3(1+1/n)^2+..... is equal to .............

Q. X,Yand Z are senior engineers. A,B,C,D are junior engineers. Company wants to select 4 enginers. Two will be senior and two will be juniors. Y is not front to A, Z is not front to C, B is not front to A, B is selected then who will be 4 members ?

Q. A speaks 70% of truth , B is speaking 80% truth .prob. that both are contradicting each other is ?

Q. Integration of (2x-3)/((x^2 +x+1)^2 dx is ?

Q. Ram is starting from north walking 2 km and turn right walk 4 km and turn right walking 4 km again, turn walked 4 km .    Radha walking opposite to Ram . 
     a.) what will be the distance of Ram direction Radha ?
     b.) D.B.T starting and finishing positions. ?

Q. If dy= (sec x+ y tan x)dx , then  y =.....?......

Q. If the equation  x^2 -3x +a=0 has the roots (0,1) then value of a is ?

Q. A and B's temperature are 10°c and 20°c having same surface , then their  ratio of emmisions is ?

Q.If  2 persons have to select a number from 1 to 25 then  the probability for not selecting the same number is .... ?....

Q. There are 10 questions divided into two groups each containing 5 questions. A and B select max of 4 numbers from       their respective groups . Number  of ways to select 6 quiestions is .......?....

Q. A system P1,T1 is transferred to P2,T2 .The condition for the two forces to remain constant during the two process       is.... ?.....

Q. An atomic particle exists and has a  particlular decay rate . It is in a train . When the train moves, a person observes for       whether   the decay rate
     a.) increases
     b.) decreases
     c.) depend on the directions of movement of train 

Q. What is the emperical formula for the compoud with composition C=40% , H=6.7%, O=53.6% 

Ans. CH2O 

Q. Which of the following exchanges positive ions
a).cl-
b) nh2- 


Ans nh2-

Q. What is an ideal solution ?

Q. If x approaches infinity , then (òe^x dx )/( òe^2xdx) is ?

Q. Cemeatite is represented by ?

Q. Dead zone in control system means ?

Q.Warping can be avoided by ?

Q. After execution of CMP, a instruction in Intel 8085 microprocessor...
   a) ZF is set and CY is reset.
   b) ZF is set CY is unchanged
   c) ZF is reset, CY is set
   d) ZF is reset , CY is unchanged .

Ans .ZF is set and CY is  reset

Q Two bodies changed from P1V1 to P2V2 states in two ways , the heat supplied is delta Q and work done is delta W .       What is the constant in these two processes ?. 
   a)delta Q
   b) delta W
   c) Delta Q+delta W
   d) DeltaQ-deltaW


Q When a free electron is placed in a plane of EM then it moves in 
   a.) in the direction of Electriv field.
   b.) in direction of magnetic field 
   c.) of propogative waves.
   d.) of the plane containing magnetic field an propogation direction.

Q The element which have same atomic mass and atomic number are called ....

Ans   isomers.

Q Name the phenomean in wich 1 photon is jumped from 1 isomer to another to create two different elts.
   a) functional  isomers.
   b) stereo isomers
   c) tauto isomers 
   d) penta isomers ?

Q  In triod valve in order to increase the saturation current what has to be done? 
    a) increase plate voltage
    b) reduce dist. between grid and plate
    c) increase cathode potential
    d) reduce grid potential. ?

Q In how many ways can seven different toys be distriubuted among 3 children ?

Q. A,B and C are three speakers . They have to speak along with 5 other speakers in a function. A has to speak  
     before B, B has to speak before C in how many ways can this happen ?

Q. Periods of sin( 2pi +3)6pi is ....?.....

Q. There are two section in a paper, each contains five questions . A student has to answer 6 questions. Max no. of 
     questions that can be answered from one section is 4. In how many ways can this be done ?


Q. Two circles of different radii intersect each other .What is the no. of max intersections ?

Q. If the function f(x)= 1-cos(1-cosx) / x^4  is continuos at f(0) . then what is x?

Q. The best tool for editing a graphic image is ?

Q. Network scheme defines 
    a.)one to one
    b.) many to many 
    c.) one to ,many ?


Q Two conditions are given  a) if one touch bees it strings and  b) he touched the bees.What happens next ?
   1) it sting
   2)it may be sting
   3)it definitily stings.

Q.A starts from  a point and walked towards north for 2 meters and turns to his right side and walks for 
    4 mtrs. The turns right and walks for 4 mtrs then 
    1.) in which direction a is going after first turn ?
    2.) how much distance away from the beginning point is A  at the end.?


Q  A person wants to measures the length of a rod.First he measures with standing ideally then he maeasures by  
     moving  parrel to the rod. 
    a)the length will decresde in second case.
    b)length will be same.
    c) length will increse in the second case.

Q. A line passes through (1,0) .What is line's equation ?

Q. A does work in 3 days and B can do in 2 days in how many days can both do it ?

Q. One U-230 nucleus is placed in a train moving by velocity emmitimg alpha rays .When the train is at rest the 
    distance between nucleus and alpha particle is x . One passenger is observing the particle . When the train is moving
    what is the distance between particle and nucleus ? 
    a.) x.
    b.) x+vt 
    c.)x-vt ?

Q. What is the resulting soln. when benzene and toluene are mixed ?

Q What sorting algos have their best and worst case times equal ?

Q. What page replacement algo . has minimumn number of page faults ?

Q. What is the use of abstract base class  in C++ ?

The following are few sample questions that maybe asked in the hardware paper.We haven't been able to give the values in certain problems ; only the type of questions have been mentioned.

Q. Concentration and restivity is given and conductivity is asked for  ?

Q. R , resistance and C,capacitance  is given ,find the frequency  and Q factor of the crystal ?

Q. Critical fequency and angle theta is given ;.the  max useable frequency is to becalculated

Q.Questions on parabolic reflector  anttena's and  half wave dipole antenna's design 

Q. Ramp signal is generated from integrator .Whether it is a  low or high pass filter .?

Q. Calculate FM bandwidth given max modulation fequency FM , max freq deviation , df and 8 pairs alllowable          
     side  band component ?




Back to top
