Put away your computers, calculators and office supplies.  Tell me, how many people need to be in a room for there to be greater than a 50% probability that at least two people share the same birthday?

It is easier to see this as what is the chance that no one shares a common birthday?  We can call this probability A.  Therefore, our solution is the compliment, 1-A: at least two people or more have a common birthday.  What is probability A?  If there are two people, the chance that they don’t have the same birthday is (364/365); there is a 1/365 chance that they do have the same birthday.  This only leaves 363 days left for our third person, making the probability that three people don’t share a birthday as 1*(364/365)*(363/365).  If we continue with the math we see that we need 23 people in order to have a probability of 49.3% that no one shares a common birthday.  Since we are searching for 1-A, this means there is a 50.7% chance of a common birthday if there are 23 people in the room.

It has 20 liters of mixture containing milk and water in the ratio 3:5, replace 4 liters of mixture with 4 liters of water. What is the final ratio of milk and water?

In pure milk if 20% replaced by water and in this again 20% is replaced by water and again 20% is replaced by water then what is the proportion of milk in that mixture

A licence code is composed of 3 letters and 3 numbers. The sum of the 3 numbers is 9. How many possible codes are there?



3. some people went for vaction. unfortunately it rained for 13 days when they were there. but whenever it rained in the
   morning, they had clean afternood and vice versa. In all they  enjoyed 11 morning and 12 afternoons. how many days did 
   they stay there totally?

4. A cow was standing on a bridge, 5feet away from the middle of the bridge. suddenly a lightning express 
   with 90 miles/hr was coming towards the bridge from nearest end of the cow.seeeing this the cow ran towards the 
   express and managed to escape when the train is one feet away from the bridge. if it would have ran to opposite 
   direction(ie away from train) it would have been hit the train one ft away from the end of the bridge. 
   Calculate the length of bridge?

5. Mr. ANYMAN left ANYTOWN by car to attend a wedding at ANYCITY. He had been driving for exactly two hours when the car 
   got punctured. It took his driver exactly ten minutes to change the wheel. In order to play safe they covered the 
   remaining distance at a speed of 30mph. consequently, Mr. ANYMAN was at wedding half an hour behind schedule. 
   Had the car got the puncture only 30 miles later , I would have been only FIFTEEN minutes late he told the driver . 
   How Far is ANYCITY from ANYTOWN?

6. Tom wants to catch a hare. He is standing 250 yards south from the hare. The hare starts moving due east.   
   Tom, instead of moving in the northeast direction, moves in such a way that at every instant, he is going
   towards the hare. If speed of tom is one and one-third times that of the hare, find the distance each
   traveled before he caught the hare?

Given Details:

(1) Ashland is north of East Liverpool and west of Coshocton
(2) Bowling Green is north of Ashland and west of Fredericktown
(3) Dover is south and east of Ashland
(4) East Liverpool is north of Fredricktown and east of Dover
(5) Fredricktown is north of Dover and west of Ashland
(6) Coshocton is south of Fredricktown and west of Dover

1)Which of the towns mentioned is furthest to the northwest ?
(a) Ashland
(b) Bowling Green
(c) Coshocton
(d) East Liverpool
(e) Fredericktown

2). Which of the following must be both north and east of Fredricktown?
(I) Ashland
(II) Coshocton
(III) East Liverpool
(a) I only
(b) II only
(c) III only
(d) I and II
(e) I and III

3. Which of the following towns must be situated both south and west of at
least one other town?
(a) Ashland only
(b) Ashland and Fredricktown
(c) Dover and Fredricktown
(d) Dover,Coshocton and Fredricktown
(e) Dover,Coshocton and East Liverpool

4. Which of the following statements, if true, would make the information
in the numbered statements more specific?
(a) Coshocton is north of Dover
(b) East Liverpool is north of Dover
(c) Ashland is east of Bowling Green
(d) Coshocton is east of Fredericktown
(e) Bowling Green is north of Fredericktown


2. which must be false if the information given is true ?
a) no lean men are fair skinned.
b) some fair skinned are lean.
c) some rich men are both fair skinned and muscular.
d) some tall men are neither fair skinned nor employed
e) some rich men are lean

3. which of the following can be deduced from the information given ?
a) all rich men are handsome
b) some rich men are handsome
c) some rich men are employed
d) some rich men are muscular
e) all rich men are handsome, muscular, or employed

4. which cannot be shown to be true or false on the basis of the information
given ?
I. No fair skinned or muscular man is employed
II. Some muscular men are fair skinned but not handsome
III. No fair skinned man both handsome and lean
a) I only b) II only c) III only d) I and II e) II and III


(The ans were given as : 1) C 2)D 3) E 4)B
But i dont know how 2 get these answers. Plz explain how these hav come???)


Q.3

A recent murder case centered around the six men, clam, flip, gront, herm, mast,
and walt.
In one order or another these man were the victim, the murderer, the witness, the
police, the judge, and the
hangman.
The facts of the case were simple. The victim had died instantly from
the effect of gunshot
wound inflicted a shot. After a lengthy trial the murderer was convicted,
sentenced to death, and
hanged.
* Mast knew both the victim and the murderer.
* In court the judge asked clam his account of the shooting.
*Walt was the last of the six to see flip alive.
*The police testified that he picked up gront near the place where the body was
found.
*Herm and walt never met.
What role did each of the following play in this melodrama ?


Q.4

Ann,Brian,Cedric and Dave were Architect,Barber,Caretaker and Dentist not
necessarily in that order.
a)Atleast one but not all have the initials of occupation and name as same
alphabet.
b)The architect did not have 'r' in his name
c)The dentist and barber had exactly one alphabet
common in their names.
Tell the occupation of Ann and Cedric

Q.5
John had a square farm.This year he had a larger square patch and hence he
had 211 cabbages
more than previous year.How many cabbages did he have the previous year?


----------------------------------------------------------------------------


3. Total no of mornings and evenings:12+11=23
   It rained on 13 days so they went out just once: hence 23-13=10
   so they went out ten times and they could go out twice on a day...so 10/2=5 days

   therefore 13+5=18 days...

4.

5. Let L be the total distance, v be the velocity till the car breaks down and x be the dist from start where car 
   breaks down for the first time

   Now,

       x/v=2--->>(A)

	(L/v) + (30/60) = 2 + (10/60) + (L-x)/30----->>(B)

	(L/v) + (15/60) = (x+30)/v + 10/60 + (L-x-30)/30 ------>>(C)

  Figure out how i arrived at the eqns

  Solving A,B,C     L=20 miles.

6. 






