What is K8s? // Pronounced as Koo-Ber-Net-ees;
	It is an open-source container orchestration platform;

Why K8s?

What is K8s Cluster?
	Cluster is nothing but a set of nodes;

What is K8s Node?
	What is K8s? K8s is a Resource Manager; 
	What Resources it manages? It manages Virtual Servers(not physical);
	What is Virtual Server? 
		In AWS, it is called EC2 instance; In Azure, it is called Virtual Machine; In Google Cloud, it is called Compute Engine; 
		K8s gave all of them a generic name - called Worker Node;
	To manage 100s of worker nodes, you need Master Nodes;
	To simlify:
		Worker Node -> Runs our applications;
		Master Node -> Manages the Cluster or worker nodes;

What is Pod?
	It is the smallest deployable unit, in k8s; 
	You might think container is the smallest deployable unit, but No! In K8s, Pod is the smallest deployable unit;
	In K8s, you will not be able to create a container, without creating pod;
	Your container lives in Pods;

Why do we need a Pod?
	Each pod can have one or more containers; 
	It has a unique IP address; All containers in a Pod share the Resources;
	Within a Pod, containers can talk to each other using localhost;

What is Replica Set?
	It ensures that specific number of pods are running all the time;

What is Deployment?
	It makes sure that upgrade from one version to another version happens without any downtime;

What is Service?
	It makes sure that service is always available(up and running) on same URL, even when one pod is down or when pods are getting upgraded;
	In other words, it exposes an always available URL to applications running in the pods;
	Service is created when you run 'kubectl expose deployment';
	It load balances the requests among all pods running;

What is Name Space?
	It is used to isolate a part of the cluster from other part; It is a way to separate resource dev, qa, preprod, prod environments;
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Initially we create a Deployment; It implicitly creates Deployment, Replicaset, Pod;
Cluster is a collection of Nodes;
Node is a collection of Pods;
Pod is a collection of Containers;


ClusterIP Service -> It can be accessed only inside the cluster; 
NodePort Service -> It can be accessed only inside the cluster; 





What is Container Orchestration?
	It is all about managing the lifecycle of containers.
		- Deployment
		- Rolling out new version of the apps and configuration without downtime. If something goes wrong, it can rollback the change for you. 
		- Load balancing - distributing the load between containers.
		- Scaling up/down by adding/removing containers when demand changes.
		- Health monitoring and Auto healing - Move the containers from one host to another, if the host dies or there is shortage of resources in it.
		- Storage, Networking, Service Discovery
		- Monitoring, Logging, Debugging
		- Apps build to work with k8s can be easily moved from one IaaS to another, without any changes to app source code.
		  Apps are deployed on K8s cluster and K8s cluster is deployed in IaaS.

What is Monolithic Service?
	All the components of an application are packaged together and deployed.

What is a Micro Service?
	It structures an application as a collection of small autonomous services.
	Advantages: scaling, independant deployment etc.
	
	https://dzone.com/articles/what-is-microservices-an-introduction-to-microserv
	https://www.tatvasoft.com/blog/the-difference-between-micro-services-and-web-services/

What is Continous Integration, Continous Deployment, Continuous Delivery?
	https://stackoverflow.com/questions/28608015/continuous-integration-vs-continuous-delivery-vs-continuous-deployment
	https://stackify.com/continuous-delivery-vs-continuous-deployment-vs-continuous-integration/

