Main Question Paper

Question 1.
1) a) 10 1 9 2 8 3 7 4 6 5 5 6 4 7 3 8 2 _ _
b) 2 4 16 512 _
write the next elements in the series.
Question 2.

2) A Man is sitting in the last coach of train could not find a seat, so he
starts walking to the front coach ,he walks for 5 min and
reaches front coach. Not finding a seat he walks back to last coach
and when he reaches there, train had completed 5 miles. what is the speed of
the train

Question 3.
3) The Old car of Mary requires tyres to be changed after each 24000 km. if
she wants to
go for 42000 km journey then how many minimum
number of tyres she will need.
Question 4.

4) A coin is so unbalanced that it may come both heads in 2 tosses as it may
come tails in a single toss. what is the probabality of getting a head in a
single toss.
Question 5.

5) A pen, pencil and eraser together cost $1.00. if 2E<N , if N>2P, and
3P>4E then what a single pen will cost?

Question 6.
6) A local forecast service has accuracy of 2/3 says No rain , and
Meteriological service having accuracy of 4/3 says Rain. if Preference is as
no rain what is the chance of rain?

Question 7.
7) Sherlock holmes thrwated the plan to kidnapp Mrs mary when they were
questioned Mercy and his two associated shipy and rany.when they were
telling the story one of them told one thing wrong and other true, the other
told both true, and the last told both false. examining the following tell
the roles played by each
Mercy:: 1) i wrote the ransome note
2) shipy broke into the window
rany 1) shipy wrote the ransome note
2) mercy ran away with the lady
shipy 1)i broke into the window
2)rany wrote the ransome note.

Question 8.
8) Tom asked kim did you like the stamps? she said yes ,me and rob too liked
them.
kim again said that rob got 3 more than he wd have got if i would have kept
2 more than
what he got.
Tom asked how many u gave Rob? she replied 2 more than what i got.
Tell , how many stamps each rob and kim got?

Question 9.
9) The virgo club members used to meet every week to play cards. Each time
they used to seat around a round table and for their memory they used all
the possiblecombinations of postions each for a single time only. Can you
tell for how many times they met?
Back to top

Essays Asked
If you are given a chance to change a thing in you hometown , what would you
change ? give examples why you want to do so.
Television is creating a communication gap among young generation.
