the questions are    (time 60 min)
1) there are brothers and sisters in a family. one of the brother has
equal breothers and sisters, and one of the sister has twice as many
brothers as she had sisters. find the number of brother and sisters.
ans 4 and 3 (3marks)

2) a girl is given one full soda bottle, for every 5 empty bottles, she
had 77 empty bottles, how many max soda bottles she can drink.
ans 19 (3m)

3) what is the angle between minutes hand and hours hand if the time is
3:15
ans 15/2 degrees (3m)

4) a van can travel atr a max speed of 100 kmph, the decrease in velocity
is proporsional to the number of passegers. if 3 persons are there in the
van the velocity is 88 kmph, the maximum capacioty of the van is 7 if 6
people board, what is the speed of the van
ans 72kmph (4m)

5) A and B are two cities separated by 99 kms apart, there are 98 poles in
between, showing the distances of the two cities on the either side, find
the number of poles, in which, only 2 digits are used (example 11,88 here
only 1 and 8 are used)
ans 18 (5m)

6)the 26 alphabates from A to Z are numbered in the serial order A -1
(B-2 etc.) B is 2 to the power of its preceding term, exampke C-3^2 = 9
and so on up to Z, find the value of (X-A)*(X-B)*........(X-Z)
ans 0 (6m)

7) 15, 16, 18 ,19, 20, 31 were thw weights of six items of which five
butter and one was chweese. a man purchased two butter items and the
second bought items twice the weight of the first person. what is the weight of
cheese.
ans 20 (6m)
8)there are four girls.they got prizes which they have won after a concert
 " i got one prize more than u" said bernise. onr girl said to
"i got two prizes more than ". one girl said  that "i got three prizes
more than the u". one girl said that "i got four prizes mo10re than u".
one gorl said that" i got five prizes more than u" one girl said that" i
got six prizes more than u" if the total prizes won by them are 27 find
the no. of prizes won by bernise.
 ans 5 (6m)
9) there are four brothers A, B,C,D and each has two dogs. they name
thaeir dogsafter their other brothers.the dogs were of breed c, d,t.ther
are threee c three t's and two d's
 each brother will notnhave the dogs of the same breed
 no two dogs of same breed will have the same name
 B will not have t breed dogs
 A wiil not name his dog after D
 C will not name his dog after A
 What are the names and owners of dogs of d breed??

ans B,C   are the owners A and C are the dogs names.(6m)

10) there was a party held in which four DJ's contested.L, S,P,J. They
were numbere 1, 2, 3, 4. L won the first place.P defeated S.The person who
was numbered 2 had red deck. J did not have yellow deck. the person who
came last had a blue deck.there is only one person who is numbered the
same as his position.the person who was third had green deck. find the
positions of all the persons and their numbering and their decks.   (8m)

ans L RED
    P YELLOW
    S GREEN 
    J BLUE.


and there is an essay (15min)
*******Topics********
1) power and politics,
2)relevance of education with work life.




