What is Actuator?
	It is a module that provides production-ready features to monitor and manage your Spring Boot application.
	It offers various endpoints and metrics that can be used for monitoring, health checks, auditing, and managing your application. 
	The actuator exposes these features via RESTful endpoints or JMX (Java Management Extensions) beans.
	It provides production-ready features to help you monitor and manage your application. 
	With Actuator, you can add several built-in services to your application without writing any code.

By default, Actuator endpoints are enabled, but we can customize the configuration in the application.properties or application.yml file. 
For example, to enable all Actuator endpoints, we can add the following line to application.properties file:

management.endpoints.web.exposure.include=*

Now that we have Actuator enabled, we can access various endpoints to monitor and manage the…




Features of Spring Boot Actuator
Here are some features provided by Spring Boot Actuator:

Health check-up: Spring Boot Actuator provides a /health endpoint to check the health of your application.
Metrics gathering: It gathers various metrics about your application like memory usage, garbage collection, web request tracing, etc.
HTTP tracing: It keeps track of HTTP request-response exchange details.
Application info: It can display application-related information.
Shutdown: It exposes a shutdown endpoint to gracefully shut down the application.
Environment information: It exposes environment variables and configuration properties.


By default, only the ‘health’ and ‘info’ endpoints are enabled. 
If you want to expose only specific endpoints, you can list them: management.endpoints.web.exposure.include=health,info,beans
If you want to enable all endpoints, you can add the following property to your application.properties file: management.endpoints.web.exposure.include=*

By default, /info endpoint is disabled in actuator. We need to add the below config to application.properties file to see application related information exposed by us.
management.info.env.enabled=true
info.app.name=Spring Boot Actuator Dashboard
info.app.description=Spring Boot backend to demonstrate actuator APIs
info.app.version=1.0

