Why K8s?
    It automates the following tasks at scale:
        - Configuration of containers
        - Scheduling 
            -- You can schedule/create the Pods on most appropriate nodes in a automated way;
            For eg, if a pod requires 2GB of memory, K8s will filter out all nodes that have less than 2GB of memory;

    
    
    scheduling refers to making sure that Pods are matched to Nodes so that Kubelet can run them.
    
Configuring and scheduling of containers
Provisioning and deployment of containers
Redundancy and availability of containers
Scaling up or removing containers to spread application load evenly across host infrastructure
Movement of containers from one host to another if there is a shortage of resources in a host, or if a host dies
Allocation of resources between containers
External exposure of services running in a container with the outside world
Load balancing of service discovery between containers
Health monitoring of containers and hosts

What is Container Orchestration?
    The process of automatically deploying and managing containers in a clustered environment is known as Container Orchestration;



What is Container?
    Container is a completely isolated environment;
    It has it's own processes, mounts and networking interfaces;

What is K8s?
    Container 
    Orchestration

Container orchestration automatically provisions, deploys, scales, and manages containerized applications without worrying about the underlying infrastructure. 


    Kubernetes (K8s) is an open-source system to deploy, scale, and manage containerized apps anywhere
    Kubernetes is designed to orchestrate containers across multiple servers (a cluster) where as docker-compose is designed to run on a single machine.
Kubernetes, also known as K8s, is an open source system for managing containerized applications across multiple hosts. 
Google later donated the Kubernetes project to the newly formed Cloud Native Computing Foundation (CNCF) in 2015.

Why K8s?
    Fast and easy deployment: 
    It also provides container updates with no downtime during production.

Docker has its own tool called Docker Swarm, Kubernetes from Google and MESOS from Apache.

Scheduling -> https://romanglushach.medium.com/kubernetes-scheduling-understanding-the-math-behind-the-magic-2305b57d45b1
